| [home page](README.md) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt.md) | [critique by design](critique-by-design.md) | [final project I](final-project-part-one.md) | [final project II](final-project-part-two.md) | [final project III](final-project-part-three.md) |

# Wireframes / storyboards
> Using your sketches developed last week, further develop your story outline and relevant components visually through the use of wireframing / storyboards. Using your outline as a guide, include high-fidelity, individual draft data visualizations of the critical elements of your story you want to share with your reader. Note: you can build these elements out directly in Shorthand this week if you wish.  Reminder: this template is intended to help, but it doesn't substitute for reading through the full homework assignment!  The assignment page on Canvas includes many important details for completing Part II of the final project. 

Text here!

# User research 

## Target audience
> Include your approach to identifying representative individuals, and who you hope to reach with your story. 

For this story, the target audience could be seen as the general public, but I want to narrow this definition down more. There are two opposing sides to my story, how zoos are damaging animals and the conservation work done by zoos. Since my goal is to balance these opposing ideas of zoos, my target audience should be a representative of both of these groups. Here is my idea:

**Opposing Modern Zoos Representative:** _Someone who deeply cares about Animal's Rights_  
This audience member deeply cares about the right of animals to live healthy and well. This person would probably agree with the statement that animals are being treated as entertainment in zoos and that these same animals would lead healthier, more fulfilling lives if they were returned to the wild. I imagine that this group of people may have loved zoos when they were little, but have become disillusioned as they have grown up. That is why this group would much prefer zoos to either release their animals or completely transition to a new form where animals are given many acres of land as habitats, such as the [North Carolina Zoo](https://www.nczoo.org/visit/about-zoo#:~:text=From%20critically%20endangered%20vultures%20and,for%20more%20than%20two%20decades.&text=Just%20a%20reminder%E2%80%A6,world's%20largest%20natural%20habitat%20zoo.), which is the largest habitat zoo in the world, boasting over [2,800 acres](https://www.dncr.nc.gov/news/press-releases/2024/03/13/north-carolina-zoo-ranks-among-top-10-best-zoos-nation#:~:text=As%20the%20world's%20largest%20natural,treat%20for%20its%20golden%20anniversary.) of land.

**Supporting Modern Zoos Representative:** _Someone who deeply cares about the Conservation and General Education of these Animals_
This audience member deeply cares about animal conservation in our rapidly changing world. This person would probably agree with the statement that animals should be kept in zoos to learn more about them, educate the general public, and support these organizations that directly fund animal conservation work. I imagine that this group of people may talk about the millions of dollars being generated by zoos that go into supporting conservation projects around the world. This group of people may also prefer animals being released to the wild but also supports the idea of maintaining and growing vulnerable animal populations as needed to maintain our world's conservation. They may point to lists such as from the [Taronga Conservation Society](https://taronga.org.au/news/2017-05-22/10-endangered-species-saved-extinction-zoos) that find that many species, such as the California Condor, Bongo, and Golden Lion Tamarin, have been saved from extinction due to the conservation work performed by zoos.

**Synthesis between these Representatives:**
Ultimately, what I need to focus on is that these two groups of people are not completely at odds with one another. If you look at their core beliefs, we'll find that both of these groups of people _deeply care about the well-being of these animal populations._ These two groups are united by this idea, they simply have two different ideas on how to carry this out. For this presentation, I don't want to take a side of this argument, I want to focus on what's important to both of these groups: animal welfare.

## Interview script
> List the goals from your research, and the questions you intend to ask. 

Text here!

| Goal | Questions to Ask |
|------|------------------|
|      |                  |
|      |                  |
|      |                  |


Text here!

## Interview findings
> Detail the findings from your interviews.  Do not include PII.  Capture specific insights where possible.

Text here!

| Questions               | Interview 1 (briefly describe) | Interview 2 | Interview 3 |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Question you asked here | Insightful feedback            |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |


# Identified changes for Part III
> Document the changes you plan on implementing next week to address any issues identified.  

Text here!

| Research synthesis                       | Anticipated changes for Part III                                                |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Findings or observations from interviews | Describe what, if any changes you anticipate making to address the observation. |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
| ...add more rows as necessary            |                                                                                 |

> ...include any final thoughts you have here. 

Text here!

# Moodboards / personas
> If you did this optional part, include details here.  Otherwise remove this section

Text here!

