final-project-part-one.md, before:

| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |


> Important note: this template includes major elements of Part I, but the instructions on Canvas are the authoritative source.  Make sure to read through the assignment page and review the rubric to confirm you have everything you need before submitting.  When done, delete these instructions before submitting.

# Outline
> Include a high-level summary of your project.  This should be a couple paragraphs that describe what you're interested in showing with your final project. 
 
Text here...

> A project structure that outlines the major elements of your story.  Your Good Charts text talks about story structure in Chapter 8 - you should describe what you hope to achieve.  Make sure the outline is detailed enough that we can see how you anticipate your story unfolding.  You can incorporate your Story Arc from the in-class exercise along with your user stories and one sentence summary to make the topic even more clear. 

Text here...

## Initial sketches
> Post images of your anticipated data visualizations (sketches are fine). They should mimic aspects of your outline, and include elements of your story.  

Text here...

# The data
> A couple of paragraphs that document your data source(s), and an explanation of how you plan on using your data. 

Text here...

> A link to the publicly-accessible datasets you plan on using, or a link to a copy of the data you've uploaded to your Github repository, Box account or other publicly-accessible location. Using a datasource that is already publicly accessible is highly encouraged.  If you anticipate using a data source other than something that would be publicly available please talk to me first. 

| Name | URL | Description |
|------|-----|-------------|
|      |     |             |
|      |     |             |
|      |     |             |

# Method and medium
> In a few sentences, you should document how you plan on completing your final project. 

Text here...

Commit message:

Intro final-project-part-one.md

final-project-part-one.md, after:

| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Outline
> Include a high-level summary of your project.  This should be a couple paragraphs that describe what you're interested in showing with your final project. 
 
For my topic, I would like to talk about zoos, how ethical they are, and the conservational work they achieve. I have always loved zoos. They are some of my favorite places to visit. I love getting to see and learn about new species. I also find zoo design fascinating, such as how a zoo decides to showcase its animals, how they choose where their species are located relative to one another (some appear random, some have themes), and how each zoo takes a different stance on educating people about climate change and other human impacts on the natural world.

I also know that zoos have seen their fair share of controversies. Perhaps the biggest is the discussion around putting these animals on display. _Are these animals in zoos for their benefit or for our benefit?_ As someone who personally loves zoos, this question has always stuck around with me. At what point are zoos not helping their animals and are just profiting from them for entertainment? In this data story, I want to dive into the pros and cons of modern zoos. I want to talk about these animals being constrained in zoos, but also the conservation work that is achieved in zoos.

It is at this point that I have to admit my bias. I was a zookeeper for the Oglebay Good Zoo.

> A project structure that outlines the major elements of your story.  Your Good Charts text talks about story structure in Chapter 8 - you should describe what you hope to achieve.  Make sure the outline is detailed enough that we can see how you anticipate your story unfolding.  You can incorporate your Story Arc from the in-class exercise along with your user stories and one sentence summary to make the topic even more clear. 

Text here...

## Initial sketches
> Post images of your anticipated data visualizations (sketches are fine). They should mimic aspects of your outline, and include elements of your story.  

Text here...

# The data
> A couple of paragraphs that document your data source(s), and an explanation of how you plan on using your data. 

Text here...

> A link to the publicly-accessible datasets you plan on using, or a link to a copy of the data you've uploaded to your Github repository, Box account or other publicly-accessible location. Using a datasource that is already publicly accessible is highly encouraged.  If you anticipate using a data source other than something that would be publicly available please talk to me first. 

| Name | URL | Description |
|------|-----|-------------|
|      |     |             |
|      |     |             |
|      |     |             |

# Method and medium
> In a few sentences, you should document how you plan on completing your final project. 

Text here...
