final-project-part-three.md, before:

| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# The final data story
> Include a link to your final data story on Shorthand, Esri StoryMaps, etc. here. 

Text here!

# Changes made since Part II
> Include few paragraphs that reflects on changes you made since the completion of Part II. 

Text here!

## The audience
> Talk about who you identified as the audience for your final data story.  Include any other information you've used that helped you narrow the focus (e.g. insights from your interviews, personas, etc.).  Note any specific adjustments you made to your final project to make it work for your audience.

Text here!

## Final design decisions
> You can specifically break out your design decisions here, or include it under *Changes made since Part II* and delete this section. Talk about the design decisions you had to make along the way, and reflect on anything in particular that stands out to you that you learned working through the process.  Include any other information that helps round out your data story. 

Text here!

## References
> You should have already included detailed references on your Shorthand story - if so, you can probably skip this section.  Use this section to capture any additional special notes or information necessary.  If you do this, you probably want to include a link from Shorthand to this page. Make sure to double-check that you aren't using copyright material and that you have added / updated any citations or other content that you used to create your data story.  Make sure you have cited external sources correctly. 

Text here!

# Final thoughts
> You can summarize any final thoughts / reflections that don't fit well in the previous sections here.  How did it go?  What did you run out of time for, or wish you had a chance to revisit?  What were you most excited about?  Include any final reflections as you think they might help us understand your process.  If you already included such reflections elsewhere, you can delete this section. 

Text here!

Commit message:

Changes made since Part 2 final-project-part-three.md

final-project-part-three.md, after:

| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/.md) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design.md) | [final project I](final-project-part-one.md) | [final project II](final-project-part-two.md) | [final project III](final-project-part-three.md) |

# The final data story

Below are the links to my final data story shorthand. Note, there have been some bugs with my graphics not fully loading in the final published URL, so I am including the editor as well, which always includes the loaded graphics.

> [Final Shorthand Presentation](https://carnegiemellon.shorthandstories.com/supporting-the-right-zoos/index.html)
> [Editor URL if Graphics are not loading correctly](https://app.shorthand.com/organisations/JSrgFWI7zn/stories/pL82KCt2hz)

# Changes made since Part II

I was able to incorporate quite a few changes that my interviewees recommended to me! For this section, I will run down the list of changes that were suggested and if I incorporated them:

| Interview Changes Suggested                       | Changes made in Part III                                                |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| The fonts need to be altered. | I tried my best to alter the fonts. Not all of the fonts were editable, for example, I wasn't able to figure out how to change the font for my research output years. However, I tried to make the changes where I could! From the critique by design assignment, I liked how I used boldened words to emphasize certain aspects of my story. So I wanted to use bold lettering and different colored lettering to draw the user's attention to the must essential bits of information. I hope that these changes were successful. |
|               A legend for the map.                           |                                     This was a super easy fix. Tableau already generated a label, I removed it because I didn't think it looked very good, but since no label left my viewers confused, I needed to make this change. I decided to make a dashboard instead of just using the map, that way I could import other maps like Hawaii, Alaska, and Washington D.C. into one graphic. These three states/district all have AZA zoos, so leaving them out of the map frame wouldn't be telling the whole story. Along with including these extra maps, I also included the legend at the bottom of the map and made the map itself have no set buckets. Without the buckets, an answer between 1 and 2 will have different shades of green, where before there were buckets to group certain zoos together as one shade of green. I think this will help the viewers see more minute details much easier.                                            |
|              Captive Animals Lifespans                            |                               Thankfully, I was able to find a data source for this! This data source listed on carnivorous species, but that's alright, as it shows the general trend that zoos are increasing captive animal lifespans over time. Originally, I was thinking this would be a shared line chart, but I prefered splitting up each animal group into its own column as I found it easier to read.                                                 |
|              Does more funding mean better animal care?                            |                      Unfortunately, I wasn't able to find data on this question. However, if I had more time, I would love to look more into this question!                                                           |
|      Update the language in the Research Impact.       |                     I tried my best to make it more obvious what impact and output meant for this chart. In the axes, I made sure to add that impact was measured in citations was output was measured in published papers. I also changed the colors of the axes (blue = output, orange = impact) so that it is easier to understand which axes are measuring what. In addition, I edited the tooltip so that output and impact are defined whenever someone moves over a data point. Hopefully, this helps clear up this question!                                                            |
|     Overlap the habitat maps        |                                This was my biggest hurdle. Tableau was _not_ working with me on getting these squares to overlap. After a lot of work, I got something I was more proud of. Basically, I made both of these two separate square charts, I then made them dual axes so that they were on top of one another. I then adjusted both of their sizes equal to the square meters. Once I de-synchronized the axes, these two squares then came together. I put Victorian zoos above Modern zoos by layering the two values, and made the Victorian zoos gray. I decided to change the color of the modern habitat to green since that seems more like the color palette of my other graphs, so I wanted to remain visually consistent. I then removed the axes (since they weren't synchronized) and labeled the graphics with the values on top of them so that the axes weren't needed. I also added these values into the tooltip in case someone was still confused about which label belonged to which. I really liked Nickolas' suggestion of making this _3 times_ number more relatable to someone, but I wasn't able to add this to the graphic.                                                  |
|      Which animals are being prioritized       |                         While I don't think this would have been a tough choice to add, st the end of the day, I simply ran out of time before my presentation. Had I had more time, I think I could've certainly added this, but I wasn't able to get exact numbers from the data I had. I had a pie chart and the percentages, but I don't remember ever getting exact numbers, and this wouldn't do.                                                        |
|       Adding Animal graphics.      |                 I didn't add animal graphics to the charts themselves as I feel this would be too distracting, but I made sure to ad plenty of animal pictures within the presentation. I mean, its a presentation about zoos, there _have to be animals!                                                                |

## The audience

Text here!

## Final design decisions
> You can specifically break out your design decisions here, or include it under *Changes made since Part II* and delete this section. Talk about the design decisions you had to make along the way, and reflect on anything in particular that stands out to you that you learned working through the process.  Include any other information that helps round out your data story. 

Text here!

## References
> You should have already included detailed references on your Shorthand story - if so, you can probably skip this section.  Use this section to capture any additional special notes or information necessary.  If you do this, you probably want to include a link from Shorthand to this page. Make sure to double-check that you aren't using copyright material and that you have added / updated any citations or other content that you used to create your data story.  Make sure you have cited external sources correctly. 

Text here!

# Final thoughts
> You can summarize any final thoughts / reflections that don't fit well in the previous sections here.  How did it go?  What did you run out of time for, or wish you had a chance to revisit?  What were you most excited about?  Include any final reflections as you think they might help us understand your process.  If you already included such reflections elsewhere, you can delete this section. 

Text here!
