README.md, before:

| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# TSWD-portfolio-templates
Portfolio templates for setting up your Telling Stories with Data site.  Edit these pages as you like for your own portfolio!  
Sometimes it's helpful to keep track of your web URL.  Consider putting that somewhere on your page for easy reference: 

- Web page URL: https://brodak01.github.io/Brodak-Portfolio/
- This repository: https://github.com/brodak01/Brodak-Portfolio

# Portfolio
This is my public portfolio for Telling Stories with Data at CMU!  Here's where all my cool work will go.  You should probably hire me. 

# About me
My name is Jonathan Brodak, and I use he/him pronouns. I am a native of Southwestern Pennsylvania, being born in the small town of Carmichaels and growing up in Washington, PA, which is a suburb of Pittsburgh. I graduated from Allegheny College with my Bachelor's in History with a minor in Biology, and I am currently a Master's student at Carnegie Mellon University studying Public Policy and Management.

I live in the city of Pittsburgh and have recently adopted two kittens: Poppy and Haku! I've never cared for cats before, so it has been a new and exciting experience for me. Feel free to ask me for pictures of them!

I have multiple hobbies that I try my best to balance. I enjoy jogging and hiking for exercise. You can often find me jogging through Schenley Park in the morning! I love baking bread, my favorite is the French Boule. I've been learning how to cultivate and bake Sourdough, but my first two attempts haven't been successful just yet! I love exploring new countries! So far, I've visited 14 countries in the world, my most recent being Japan in August 2024!

# What I hope to learn
1. I would like to learn what makes an effective chart. I tend to add details and fill in any white space I can find, which could lead to inferior charts. Knowing what is best practice would be great!
2. I hope to learn which programs on the computer create the best graphics that I can work with. I know there are many visualization software out there, but I would like to find one that I am confident in and one where I am proud of the work I can produce.
3. I would like my skills to be pertinent to this course and throughout the rest of my future career paths. I hope to work in economic development once I graduate from Heinz. I understand how important data is in our modern world, so I must feel confident in producing effective graphs to better position myself within this workforce. 

# Portfolio

## Assignment: [Visualizing Government Debt](<iframe src="https://data-viewer.oecd.org?chartId=224348bf-48b6-44c7-8269-3418ffe9b557" style="border: none"; allowfullscreen="true">;
    <a rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://data-viewer.oecd.org?chartId=224348bf-48b6-44c7-8269-3418ffe9b557" target="_blank">Dataflow</a>
  </iframe>;
)
For this assignment, I found a visualization of government debt, broken down by country, from the OECD's Data Website. make sure you set up and link to a new page.  This page is linking to a new Markdown document called `visualizing-government-debt.md`.  For links to Markdown files in your repository, you can just include the name of the page without the `.md` extension. 

## Assignment 3&4: [Critique by Design](critique-by-design)
For this assignment, make sure you set up and link to a new page.  This page is linking to a new Markdown document called `critique-by-design.md`.  

## Final project
Here it might be helpful to include a high-level description of your final project. 
[Part I](final-project-part-one)
[Part II](final-project-part-two)
Part III(final-project-part-three)

---
## Other stuff you can do (you can remove this section - it's just for your reference.)

### Changing text

You can change text, like this: 

**Here's some bold** text.  Here's some *italic* text. Here's some ~~strikethrough~~ text. 

### Creating tables

You can build tables like this: 

| Name         | Type of pet | Favority activity 1 | FA 2   | FA 3            | FA 4                                |
|--------------|-------------|---------------------|--------|-----------------|-------------------------------------|
| Eli          | cat         | Sleeping            | Eating | Being pet       | Plotting to overthow dog empire     |
| Howard       | dog         | You                 | You    | You             | Eating                              |
| Frankenstein | fish        | Swimming            | Eating | Blowing bubbles | Forgetting                          |

An easy-to-use template generator tool [can be found here](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables)

You can use different headings, like this: 

# Here's a large title (H1)
## Here's a subtitle (H2)
### ...and so on (H3)
You get the idea - just don't forget the space between the # and your title.  `#Title` won't work, but `# Title` will. 

### Adding images

Here's an example of how to add an image to my portfolio.  

![funny dog picture](funny-dog-unsplash.jpg)
> Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/pt-br/@charlesdeluvio?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">charlesdeluvio</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/K4mSJ7kc0As?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
  

Alternately, you can set the size of the image using just a bit of HTML: 

<img src="funny-dog-unsplash.jpg" width="200"/>

Remember that you'll need to upload the image into your repository, or include a link to the image somewhere else.  

### Setting up a separate page

So here's the code you'll need to add to your own site to create a second page. 

1. First, create a new page in your repository (for example, dataviz1.md)
2. Next, add a link to that page by inserting the following into your readme.md page:

`[title](dataviz)` or `[dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)` or `[CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)`

Any of those formats will work. Here's some examples of working links: 

`[title](dataviz)` = [title](dataviz)  
`[dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)` = [dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)  
`[CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)` = [CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)   

Make sure to check these from your publicly accessible URL to make sure they're working correctly (not from the preview tab). 

Looking for more?  A nice Markdown guide [can be found here](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)

Commit message:

New Header and Updated Assignment Link! README.md

README.md, after:

| [Home Page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [Visualizing Debt](https://data-viewer.oecd.org?chartId=2d210203-d431-40b6-bac9-ee0f94384f6b) | [Critique by Design](critique-by-design) | [Final Project I](final-project-part-one) | [Final Project II](final-project-part-two) | [Final Project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Jonathan Brodak's Data Visualization Portfolio

- Web page URL: https://brodak01.github.io/Brodak-Portfolio/
- This repository: https://github.com/brodak01/Brodak-Portfolio

# Online Portfolio
This is my public portfolio of data visualizations I created! I created these visualizations while I was enrolled in the course "Telling Stories with Data" at Carnegie Mellon University. I hope you enjoy my work! 

# About me
My name is Jonathan Brodak, and I use he/him pronouns. I am a native of Southwestern Pennsylvania, being born in the small town of Carmichaels and growing up in Washington, PA, which is a suburb of Pittsburgh. I graduated from Allegheny College with my Bachelor's in History with a minor in Biology, and I am currently a Master's student at Carnegie Mellon University studying Public Policy and Management.

I live in the city of Pittsburgh and have recently adopted two kittens: Poppy and Haku! I've never cared for cats before, so it has been a new and exciting experience for me. Feel free to ask me for pictures of them!

I have multiple hobbies that I try my best to balance. I enjoy jogging and hiking for exercise. You can often find me jogging through Schenley Park in the morning! I love baking bread, my favorite is the French Boule. I've been learning how to cultivate and bake Sourdough, but my first two attempts haven't been successful just yet! I love exploring new countries! So far, I've visited 14 countries in the world, my most recent being Japan in August 2024!

# What I hope to learn
1. I would like to learn what makes an effective chart. I tend to add details and fill in any white space I can find, which could lead to inferior charts. Knowing what is best practice would be great!
2. I hope to learn which programs on the computer create the best graphics that I can work with. I know there are many visualization software out there, but I would like to find one that I am confident in and one where I am proud of the work I can produce.
3. I would like my skills to be pertinent to this course and throughout the rest of my future career paths. I hope to work in economic development once I graduate from Heinz. I understand how important data is in our modern world, so I must feel confident in producing effective graphs to better position myself within this workforce. 

# Portfolio Examples:

## Assignment: [Visualizing Government Debt](https://data-viewer.oecd.org?chartId=2d210203-d431-40b6-bac9-ee0f94384f6b)
For this assignment, I found a visualization of government debt, broken down by country, from the OECD's Data Website. We can see that the data is organized from the lowest percentage of debt to GDP ratio on the left (Estonia, 25.52% of GDP) and rising to the highest percentage of debt to GDP ratio on the right (Japan, 242.89% of GDP). 

## Assignment 3&4: [Critique by Design](critique-by-design)
For this assignment, make sure you set up and link to a new page.  This page is linking to a new Markdown document called `critique-by-design.md`.  

## Final project
Here it might be helpful to include a high-level description of your final project. 
[Part I](final-project-part-one)
[Part II](final-project-part-two)
Part III(final-project-part-three)

---
## Other stuff you can do (you can remove this section - it's just for your reference.)

### Changing text

You can change text, like this: 

**Here's some bold** text.  Here's some *italic* text. Here's some ~~strikethrough~~ text. 

### Creating tables

You can build tables like this: 

| Name         | Type of pet | Favority activity 1 | FA 2   | FA 3            | FA 4                                |
|--------------|-------------|---------------------|--------|-----------------|-------------------------------------|
| Eli          | cat         | Sleeping            | Eating | Being pet       | Plotting to overthow dog empire     |
| Howard       | dog         | You                 | You    | You             | Eating                              |
| Frankenstein | fish        | Swimming            | Eating | Blowing bubbles | Forgetting                          |

An easy-to-use template generator tool [can be found here](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables)

You can use different headings, like this: 

# Here's a large title (H1)
## Here's a subtitle (H2)
### ...and so on (H3)
You get the idea - just don't forget the space between the # and your title.  `#Title` won't work, but `# Title` will. 

### Adding images

Here's an example of how to add an image to my portfolio.  

![funny dog picture](funny-dog-unsplash.jpg)
> Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/pt-br/@charlesdeluvio?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">charlesdeluvio</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/K4mSJ7kc0As?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
  

Alternately, you can set the size of the image using just a bit of HTML: 

<img src="funny-dog-unsplash.jpg" width="200"/>

Remember that you'll need to upload the image into your repository, or include a link to the image somewhere else.  

### Setting up a separate page

So here's the code you'll need to add to your own site to create a second page. 

1. First, create a new page in your repository (for example, dataviz1.md)
2. Next, add a link to that page by inserting the following into your readme.md page:

`[title](dataviz)` or `[dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)` or `[CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)`

Any of those formats will work. Here's some examples of working links: 

`[title](dataviz)` = [title](dataviz)  
`[dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)` = [dataviz](https://cmustudent.github.io/portfolio/dataviz.html)  
`[CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)` = [CMU](https://www.cmu.edu)   

Make sure to check these from your publicly accessible URL to make sure they're working correctly (not from the preview tab). 

Looking for more?  A nice Markdown guide [can be found here](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)
